---
layout: post
title:  "The Effects of Trace Narasin on the Biogeochemical N-Cycle in a Cultivated Sandy Loam"
date:   May 10 2020
categories: featured
---

### DeVries, S., Loving, M.,  **Logozzo, L.**, Zhang, P., Block, K. <br>
### May 2020 &middot; *Science of the Total Environment*

Narasin is an antibiotic administered to broiler chickens to prevent coccidiosis. 
After storage, excreta containing parent narasin compounds is commonly spread as nitrogen fertilizer, 
yielding initial soil concentrations in the low μg·kg−1 range. In soil, antibiotics have 
been found to modify one or more pathways in the biogeochemical nitrogen cycle. The concentrations 
tested are often too high to be considered environmentally relevant, despite evidence that 
sub-therapeutic doses may also be disruptive. We conducted soil mesocosm experiments to 
determine the overall impact of trace narasin on major nitrogen pools and fluxes in soils 
treated with 0, 1, 10, 100, or 1000 ng·kg−1 narasin. Water content in the mesocosms varied 
from 40% to 80% water-filled pore space (WFPS), simulating a range of different redox 
conditions. Under aerobic conditions (40% WFPS), exposure to narasin inhibited nitrification, 
yielding increases in soil ammonium by up to 76%, perhaps by targeting nitrifying fungi. 
Under the same conditions, narasin caused soil nitrate concentrations to decline 17–39%. 
When the soil was near saturation (80% WFPS), nitrate increased by an average of 30%. 
Mass balances and isotopic enrichment of N2O indicate that NAR may also affect anammox and 
the rate of nitrifier nitrification/denitrification. In aerobic soils, N2O flux increased 
with antibiotic dose and the rise in flux strongly correlates to the N2O:N2 product ratio 
from dentification. This relationship suggests that N2O flux may increase in soils exposed 
to narasin even when total denitrification is modestly inhibited. We conclude that trace 
concentrations of narasin can significantly modify biogeochemical activities in soil on 
short timescales. Our results indicate the potential for extremely low concentrations of 
antibiotics to impact agricultural productivity, terrestrial N2O flux, and non-point source 
nitrogen pollution.

TEST!

<a href="https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0048969720305416?via%3Dihub" target="_blank">Read more</a>

<br>

---
<br>

You’ll find this post in your `_posts` directory. Go ahead and edit it and re-build the site to see your changes. You can rebuild the site in many different ways, but the most common way is to run `jekyll serve`, which launches a web server and auto-regenerates your site when a file is updated.

Jekyll requires blog post files to be named according to the following format:

`YEAR-MONTH-DAY-title.MARKUP`

Where `YEAR` is a four-digit number, `MONTH` and `DAY` are both two-digit numbers, and `MARKUP` is the file extension representing the format used in the file. After that, include the necessary front matter. Take a look at the source for this post to get an idea about how it works.

Jekyll also offers powerful support for code snippets:

{% highlight ruby %}
def print_hi(name)
  puts "Hi, #{name}"
end
print_hi('Tom')
#=> prints 'Hi, Tom' to STDOUT.
{% endhighlight %}

Check out the [Jekyll docs][jekyll-docs] for more info on how to get the most out of Jekyll. File all bugs/feature requests at [Jekyll’s GitHub repo][jekyll-gh]. If you have questions, you can ask them on [Jekyll Talk][jekyll-talk].

[jekyll-docs]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-talk]: https://talk.jekyllrb.com/

