---
layout: blog
title:  "Agricultural land use impacts aquatic greenhouse gas emissions from wetlands in the
Canadian Prairie Pothole Region"
date:   Mar 15 2025
categories: Publications
tags: sticky
image: "/images/gcb graphical abstract.svg"
---

##### Logozzo, L., C. Soued, L.E. Bortolotti, P. Badiou, P. Kowal, B. Page, M.J. Bogard <br>
###### Mar 2025 &middot; *Global Biogeochemical Cycles*
<br>
{% include figure.html image="/images/gcb graphical abstract.svg" caption="" position="center"%}
<p align = "justify">
The Prairie Pothole Region (PPR) is the largest wetland complex in North America, with 
millions of wetlands punctuating the landscapes of Canada and the United States. Here, 
wetlands have been dramatically impacted by agricultural land use, with unclear implications
 for regional to global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions budgets. By surveying wetlands 
 across all three Canadian prairie provinces in the PPR, we show that emissions patterns 
 of carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), and nitrous oxide (N2O) from aquatic habitats 
 differ among wetlands embedded in cropland versus perennial landcover. Wetlands in 
 cropped landscapes had double the aquatic diffusive emissions 
 (20.6 ± 31.5 vs. 9.4 ± 17.3 g CO2-eq m−2 d−1) largely driven by CH4. Structural equation 
 modeling showed that all three GHGs responded differently to the surrounding landscape 
 properties. Emissions of CH4 were the most sensitive to land use, responding positively 
 to the elevated phosphorus content and lower sulfate content in cropped settings, despite 
 higher organic matter content in wetlands in perennial landscapes. Aquatic N2O emissions 
 were negligible, while CO2 emissions were high, but not strongly related to agricultural 
 land use. While our estimates of aquatic CH4 emissions from PPR wetlands were high 
 (18.2 ± 41.4 mmol CH4 m−2 d−1), accounting for fluxes from vegetated and soil habitats 
 would lead to whole-wetland emissions rates that are lower and comparable to wetlands 
 in other biomes. Our study represents an important step toward understanding wetland 
 emission responses to land use in the PPR and other wetland-rich agricultural landscapes.
</p>

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1029/2024GB008209" target="_blank">Read more</a>

<br>